## **Capstone Proposal**: Perceivant Student Engagement Data

The client for my capstone project is Perceivant. Perceivant provides online courseware to universities and focuses on active learning. Active learning is tailored to the individual student and is meant to involve students in the learning process. The goal is that students can apply what they learn in these courses.

Perceivant wants to identify which factors of student engagement determine success in a course. They also want to see if there are other factors that predict failure. Perceivant will use the results to brainstorm potential ideas to boost student engagement based on the success factors and create risk assessments based on the predictive failure factors. These factors could be used to create new products and identify at risk students. This data could also explain add/drop rates for the course and put them in context.

The data for this project will be provided by Perceivant and is gathered through its online courseware. The data will focus on one course from one university. This is about 2000 entries containing various factors such as de-identified student grades, engagement, click history, and assessment responses.

To solve this problem, I'll first have to find an average for engagement to define an active student. This could factors such as log in times, assignments turned in, amount of time spent on quiz questions etc. Then I can define students that are over or under that threshold and determine if there is a correlation with the end grade in the class or possible the end of semester assessment. For failing students, I want to look at how many "gave up" in the class which could be determined by their log-in times to the course. By checking how many students got below a 70 and also have not been active since about September, I can eliminate those students from the dataset since they did participate the whole way through so it is a given that they would have lower scores. This approach is only a start and will evolve as I progress further through this course. The end goal would be to predict and identify successful students and students at risk of failing before the semester ends. 

I will finish the project by presenting the analysis to Perceivant. This will require a slide deck and a written report for them to reference. Along with this, I will provide the code for the project on Github.

